.TH STARDIAL 1 "2026-02-17" "stardial 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
stardial \- a space-anime themed terminal clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stardial
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stardial
is a tty-clock superset with starfield backgrounds, color themes, and gentle
visual effects.
It displays a large block-character clock in the terminal with an animated
starfield background.
.PP
Press \fBq\fR or \fBEsc\fR to quit. \fBCtrl-C\fR also works.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIFMT\fR
Time format string using chrono syntax. Default: \fB%H:%M:%S\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-twelve
Use 12-hour format. Conflicts with \fB\-\-twentyfour\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-twentyfour
Use 24-hour format (default).
.TP
.B \-\-date
Show date line below the clock.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-seconds
Hide seconds from the display.
.TP
.B \-\-blink
Blink the colon separator.
.TP
.B \-\-fps \fIN\fR
Target frames per second, 1\-60. Default: 30.
.TP
.B \-\-theme \fINAME\fR
Color theme: \fBvoid\fR (default), \fBnebula\fR, \fBluna\fR, \fBsolar\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-color \fICOLOR\fR
Override primary accent color (name or #hex).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-effects
Disable all background effects (stars, shooting stars, scanlines).
.TP
.B \-\-stars \fIN\fR
Star density, 0\-100. Default: 40.
.TP
.B \-\-size \fIN\fR
Clock face size multiplier, 1\-5. Default: 1.
.TP
.B \-\-seed \fIN\fR
Random seed for deterministic visuals.
.TP
.B \-\-demo
Run a scripted demo loop cycling through themes and options.
.TP
.B \-\-log \fIFILE\fR
Write debug/trace logs to the specified file.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.B \-V\fR, \fB\-\-version
Print version information.
.SH THEMES
.TS
allbox;
l l l.
Theme	Vibe	Accent
void	Deep space cyan	#00ffff
nebula	Purple-pink haze	#ff6ac1
luna	Silver moonlight	#c8d2f0
solar	Golden sun	#ffc832
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Default 24h clock:
.RS
.B stardial
.RE
.PP
12-hour with date:
.RS
.B stardial \-\-twelve \-\-date
.RE
.PP
Nebula theme, no seconds, blinking colon:
.RS
.B stardial \-\-theme nebula \-\-blink \-\-no\-seconds
.RE
.PP
Custom color and dense starfield:
.RS
.B stardial \-\-color '#ff6ac1' \-\-stars 80
.RE
.PP
Larger clock (2x):
.RS
.B stardial \-\-size 2
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful operation (including \fB\-\-help\fR and \fB\-\-version\fR).
.TP
.B 1
Runtime error.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line arguments.
.SH AUTHORS
hisui
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See the LICENSE file in the source distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tty-clock (1)
.PP
Source code: \fIhttps://github.com/hisuic/stardial\fR
